# Games from Primary School!
This is a pretty nostalgic repository if I do say so myself. My first intro to programming was back in Grade 3, when I created a game using GameMaker Studio 2, called Hydra. Before that, I'd done drag and drop robotics with VEX IQ (I got 2nd place in nationals for Bank Shot) and messed around with other drag and drop, but I hadn't really *created* anything when it came to software. <br>
This repository serves as a collection of what I could find on my old hard drive, and is mainly here for archival purposes. It is most likely that none of these games will ever be touched again.

## Hydra
This was the first game I made, way back when in Grade 3. It was honestly quite a messy game, but to this day I'm still pretty proud of it, considering that it was the first thing I ever made. You start the game with WASD, and you have to move to the right to the that big laserbeam. The rest of the game is basically a bad Geometry Dash knockoff, where you use the space bar to jump and avoid obstacles. There are technically two levels, but I haven't seen anyone who's ever completed both of them. There also is *supposed* to be music, but it doesn't seem like that loads properly in the web export (look at the windows export in releases for the proper game). *sad*

## TRAP.P
This game was probably the one I put the most effort into out of the lot, but unfortunately, the final version of the game was lost much before I had a license to export. This was probably around a 6 month project, and I ended up having about 30 levels with increasing difficulty. It is very apparent that the release shown on the website and the windows executable is rough: a lot of the textures haven't been done, so you randomly die when hitting certain blocks, the game randomly ends in an empty room, and there's no storyline whatsoever. You can actually see if you look in the [texture map](https://garv-shah.github.io/games/TRAP.P/html5game/TRAP.P_texture_0.png), I was working on a boss fight using a photo of one of my friends.<br> In the final release of the game, this *was* removed, instead being replaced by a short storyline. You were positioned as a character inside a lab, similar to the Portal franchise, where you were constantly being tested on. After the first boss battle, you realise that there's more to this world than you're being told, and the game end with you escaping out to the real world. It's a shame that I couldn't find the final version of this game, but at least I have an archive of it so I know it existed at some point.

## Multiplayer Game
This was a proof of concept of networking done within GameMaker, which I planned to use in an RPG style game, but I eventually gave up on. I was following [this youtube tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NbsXRuNijlo&list=PLxaJReoxlrY_S4MrCYjzFCSrNX1TUX626) and eventually turned it into my own. I'm pretty proud of this actually, because networking within GameMaker completely is probably the worst thing to attempt (it's just not made for it) and the fact that I was able to make a "game" is pretty cool. It's not really a game, all you can do is move around a square, but all the basics are there. As long as you have port forwarding rules set up, you can both host and join games from within the same launcher. Unfortunately, the web export is basically completely broken now. You used to be able to at least join games on the web, but that requires a http connection over https, as https requires more secure encoding to accept packets. This wasn't an issue when I had a custom domain, but that has since expired, so I'm stuck with the default github pages domain which enforces https. If you want to try and, download the windows executable from releases :)
